# Sideboarding

One of the most commonly asked questions on the subject of any Legacy deck is
"What should I put in my sideboard?" or "How should I side against deck XXX?"
People often get annoyed at this question with fair enough reasons to. It is a
very subjective topic and depends entirely on playstyle, list and local metagame
(ie: what decks you expect to face). This article will not tell you the way you
should sideboard but will instead discuss how you should approach sideboarding
and list some of the options that people have tried in the past.

A sideboard is available to let us mitigate any weaknesses we have in a given
match up or to alleviate any pressure from what our opponent might board in to
combat us. We change our deck to alter the speed, resiliency, level of
aggressiveness and level of protection it gives us. It can also let us
completely curve ball our opponent and change up how we win entirely.


## Proactive vs Reactive

We can simplify the number of types of cards we have to sideboard into two broad
catergories; Proactive and Reactive. Proactive cards aim to enact a reaction
from our opponent whilst Reactive cards are there to combat what our opponent is
doing. One could argue two things about this ideal. First of all this is all
just semantics and that they all do the same thing. The other is that there is
not really any truly Proactive sideboarding as everything you are doing (even if
it is changing your gameplan) is in reaction to your opponent's deck.

Pickiness aside, when boarding for a match up you do have to decide what role
you are trying to play. Are you looking to win fast, will your opponent let this
happen? Do you need to stop them doing what they want to do first? Are you
expecting permanent mana tax based hate or will they be cutting off your
resources from other directions? When you have a firm idea of this concept of
clear direction it is time to start allocating cards from the board that fit
into your assigned scope.

You sideboard choices should have clear purpose to them with clear set roles. If
something 'might' fit a role or you're not sure it is likely safer to leave it
out. You have to also be careful of excess redundancy unless something like a
known, warped meta is present.

## Wish Boards

Despite the requirement of an additional colour to facilitate its use, Burning
Wish is an incredibly versatile card. Alongside fetching ToA to finish the game,
there are a number of effective Sorceries that can be grabbed for a variety of
situations. Discard, Removal, Alternative Wincons and additional copies of
Doomsday can all be found using BW. One downside is that you do have to dedicate
a number of SB slots to provide targets for it however in theory, these are
slots saved in terms of physically moving cards from SB to MB as your copies of
BW could represent any and all of them.

## Autobots Transform!

Ah yes, the transformational sideboard. A classic in terms of blindsiding an
unsuspecting opponent. The look for horror on your opponent's face as they hold
a useless hand of Flusterstorms and Spell Pierces as you bash them to death with
Monk tokens is always priceless. Running a transformational sideboard can be
really effective but, conversely, it can also dilute your deck and often uses a
not insigificant number of sideboarding slots to fit it in.

There have been a number of options for Doomsday to transform into tried over
time. I shall discuss the main ones I am aware of.

### The Man Plan

This encompasses a couple of sub variants: Monastory Mentor / Young Pyromancer /
Dark Confidant. All of these use a creature to obtain advantage. DC and YP are a
tad more archaic now with MM being the favourite child. A Man Plan is good as it
gets around a lot of expected hate such as Duress, Spell Pierce, Flusterstorm,
Surgical Extractions, R Blasts. Quite a bit really. There is a danger though
which is misjudgement on when to bring these guys in.

Often decks might keep in removal to deal with LM and this also bombs these
guys. If you completely cuty plan A, you might be left in the lurch should the
opponent deal with your guys. They also require you to start commiting into the
fight on what is on the board and racing can often lead to the non-dedicated
creature deck being too slow despite the benefits of MM.


### Show and Tell

Something more from the old Rev lists where SI+Emrakul was more of the plan, you
could just jam in four Show and Tells and try to drop the giant Spaghetti
monster whilst still having the ability to DD into SI. As stated this plan is
somewhat out of favour and therefore may not be suitable to the current meta.


In terms of what you actually board in and out in a certain match up; I am a
poor choice of teacher. I am still learning this art and who's to say I will
ever master it. Just think through what is discussed here and try to make your
own judgements.
